aiken/signature-aggregation-case/README.md, before:

# Signature aggregation case

In multi signature aggregation case, we have multiple parties that participate in
message signing and verification. Elliptic cryptography is used here (bls12-381)which is natively supported.
Each party is having __(sk_i, pk_i)__ key pair and is signing __msg_i__ .
As a consequence, we have signatures __sig_i__ produced, ie.,

```math
sig_i=sign(sk_i,msg_i) 
```

Signature aggregation means we can, aggregate all __sig_i__, **make shorter** than the sum of all signatures engaged,
in such a way that a resultant signature, __sig_(aggr)__ , can be used in verfication stage:

```
verResult = verify([pk_1, ... , pk_n], [msg_1, ... , msg_n], sig_(aggr))
```

Thanks to that verification is quicker and has lower byte imprint.

# Security considerations:

We can have two cases here,

## each __msg_i__ is unique

Basic primitives are **secure** and one can use

```aiken
        bls/g2_basic.{aggregate_signatures, aggregate_verify, skToPk, sign}
```

## there is duplication of __msg_i__ for some i's or we do not know it is the case

Basic primitives are susceptible to __rogue-key attack__ and we need to be careful
and make sure duplicate messages are not allowed. For this, we need to use

```aiken
        bls/g2_basic.{aggregate_signatures, aggregate_distinct_verify, skToPk, sign}
```

__aggregate_distinct_verify__ make sure each message is unique before verification.

### What is the nature of problem here?

Let's assume we have __(sk1, pk1)__, __(sk2, pk2)__ and __(sk3, pk3)__ .
Third party is malicious here and constructs public key that offsets the honest keys of other
participants:

```math
pk_(rogue) = pk3 - (pk1 + pk2)
```

After key aggregation:

```math
 pk1 + pk2 + pk_(rogue) = pk3
```

This allows the attacker to produce a single valid signature with __pk3__ that verifies all participants contributed,
of course, if the message to be signed is the same.

Hence, distinct-message enforcement needs to be applied as exemplified by `aggregate_distinct_verify`.

There are two other mitigations at hand, namely PoP and augmented signing.

## Augmented BLS signing mode

In order to avoid `rogue-key attack` the signed message altered to the following:

```math
H(pk || message)
```

Meaning the signer’s public key is prepended to the message before hashing,
binding the public key to the signature.

In order to enable this, we need to import

```aiken
        bls/g2_aug.{aggregate_signatures, aggregate_verify, skToPk, sign}
```

Commit message:

demonstrate public key aggr case

aiken/signature-aggregation-case/README.md, after:

# Signature and public key aggregation cases

In multi signature aggregation case, we have multiple parties that participate in
message signing and verification. Elliptic cryptography is used here (bls12-381)which is natively supported.
Each party is having __(sk_i, pk_i)__ key pair and is signing __msg_i__ .
As a consequence, we have signatures __sig_i__ produced, ie.,

```math
sig_i=sign(sk_i,msg_i) 
```

Signature aggregation means we can, aggregate all __sig_i__, **make shorter** than the sum of all signatures engaged,
in such a way that a resultant signature, __sig_(aggr)__ , can be used in verfication stage:

```math
verResult = verify([pk_1, ... , pk_n], [msg_1, ... , msg_n], sig_(aggr))
```

also in the case when public keys are aggregated. Here,
Here, public key aggregation means we can, aggregate all __pk_i__, **make shorter** than the sum of all public key engaged,
in such a way that a resultant public key, __pk_(aggr)__ , can be used in verfication stage:

```math
verResult = verify([pk_(aggr)], [msg_1, ... , msg_n], [sk_1, ... , sk_n])
```

Also, both aggregations can be used together:

```math
verResult = verify([pk_(aggr)], [msg_1, ... , msg_n], sig_(aggr))
```


Thanks to that verification is quicker and has lower byte imprint.

# Security considerations:

We can have two cases here,

## each __msg_i__ is unique

Basic primitives are **secure** and one can use

```aiken
        bls/g2_basic.{aggregate_signatures, aggregate_verify, skToPk, sign}
```

## there is duplication of __msg_i__ for some i's or we do not know it is the case

Basic primitives are susceptible to __rogue-key attack__ and we need to be careful
and make sure duplicate messages are not allowed. For this, we need to use

```aiken
        bls/g2_basic.{aggregate_signatures, aggregate_distinct_verify, skToPk, sign}
```

__aggregate_distinct_verify__ make sure each message is unique before verification.

### What is the nature of problem here?

Let's assume we have __(sk1, pk1)__, __(sk2, pk2)__ and __(sk3, pk3)__ .
Third party is malicious here and constructs public key that offsets the honest keys of other
participants:

```math
pk_(rogue) = pk3 - (pk1 + pk2)
```

After key aggregation:

```math
 pk1 + pk2 + pk_(rogue) = pk3
```

This allows the attacker to produce a single valid signature with __pk3__ that verifies all participants contributed,
of course, if the message to be signed is the same.

Hence, distinct-message enforcement needs to be applied as exemplified by `aggregate_distinct_verify`.

There are two other mitigations at hand, namely PoP and augmented signing.

## Augmented BLS signing mode

In order to avoid `rogue-key attack` the signed message altered to the following:

```math
H(pk || message)
```

Meaning the signer’s public key is prepended to the message before hashing,
binding the public key to the signature.

In order to enable this, we need to import

```aiken
        bls/g2_aug.{aggregate_signatures, aggregate_verify, skToPk, sign}
```
